---
layout: post
title: Weekly Recap - December 2, 2018
---

It’s been nearly two years since I’ve written anything on here, so to get back in the practice, I’m starting a new thing this week where I share a run down of my favorite things that I’ve consumed in the last week: things I’ve read, listened to, watched, etc.

<!--more-->

### Reading
* [Julie K. Brown's blockbuster investigative report on Jeffrey Epstein](https://www.miamiherald.com/news/local/article220097825.html): Harrowing deep dive into Epstein’s serial sex abuse of minors and the ridiculous deal that the current Labor Secretary gave him back then. It’s a gut punch of a read, so don’t dive in unless you’re ready.
* [Adam Serwer on how Creed flipped Rocky’s racial script](https://www.theatlantic.com/entertainment/archive/2018/11/how-creed-forever-changed-rocky-series/576757/): I love pretty much everything Serwer writes and this take at how Ryan Coogler completely switched the racial subtext of Creed is fantastic.
* [David Wallace-Wells's piece on the horrors of climate change](http://nymag.com/intelligencer/2017/07/climate-change-earth-too-hot-for-humans.html) is old but with the recent climate change report, it popped up again. It’s horrifying in every detail, and gave me a whole bunch of new things to be terrified of. Yay!
* [Tim Urban at Wait but Why on how to choose a career](https://waitbutwhy.com/2018/04/picking-career.html): A super helpful framework for breaking down what you want and what’s realistic in your career. If you’re at all having thoughts about what you want to be doing (isn’t everyone?) then I’d recommend it.

### Listening
I got caught up on some old episodes of Chris Hayes’ Why Is This Happening, which I really love. Thoughtful, nuanced conversations with smart people; separate from the news cycle but adjacent to it. [This episode](https://art19.com/shows/why-is-this-happening-with-chris-hayes/episodes/4d4fe8b0-fbc5-4d4e-ba5c-671c63c94619) with Michael Tessler on white identity politics breaks down the data showing how Obama galvanized white racial identity and further polarized the parties along racial lines. Doesn’t sound too crazy when you say it, but the actual data is fascinating. I also dug [this episode with Ta-Nehisi Coates](https://art19.com/shows/why-is-this-happening-with-chris-hayes/episodes/ec57eb26-0df4-4bb7-9269-8cae80604b7a).

And then I just listened to five of the six episodes of Rachel Maddow’s [Bag Man](https://art19.com/shows/bagman) about Spiro Agnew. What a fucking crook! I had no idea! Fascinating look at an under-told story with tons of parallels to today.

Music-wise, I’m really enjoying Earl Sweatshirt’s new album, *Some Rap Songs*. I love the glitchy beats and hazy production. Check it out on your neighborhood streaming platform.

### Watching and playing
I’m not watching a whole lot these days, but we watched the original *Creed* last Sunday. This was my second time seeing it, first since it came out. *Creed II* seems to be getting some mixed reviews but goddamn I love *Creed*. A sports movie with emotionally rich and mature characters, a nice tight plot, and good racial politics? Hell yeah.

Other than *Creed*, what little sit-in-front-of-a-TV time I had this week was spent continuing to dig into *Red Dead Redemption 2*. It’s not a perfect game but damn it’s fun riding horseys around pretty places. 

### Life odds and ends
As far as everything else, some highlights from the week. I had some late nights getting ready for a big presentation for work that happened on Thursday. I went to the dentist. Had a fun co-working and happy hour session with my coworkers in Portland. And had the first holiday party / second baby shower of the year for some good friends on Saturday night.

